Gianluca Scibilia
San Francisco, CA, USA | gianluca.scibilia@outlook.com
Skills Summary
Technical proficiency
• Data Science Expertise: proficient in data science tools and models for regression, classification and clustering; skilled in
using libraries such as Pandas, Numpy, Sklearn, PyTorch, Xgboost, SciPy and familiarity with LLMs.
• Data Manipulation and Visualization: Tableau, Fluorish, Matplotlib, Plotly, R, SQL, Streamlit
• Data Management Software: Office suite, Hubspot, and G-Suite, and managing code via Docker, Kubernetes, AWS
(Sagemaker, S3), and Atlassian tools (Bitbucket, Jira, Confluence); version control with GitHub.
Professional certifications
• Innovation and Sustainability Expertise: Certified as a GIMI Certified Innovation Professional (CIP); completed the “Stanford
Strategies for Sustainability” program to align business strategies with environmental goals.
• Emerging Technologies and Business Ventures: Attained knowledge in blockchain and digital assets through "MasterZ
Blockchain and Digital Assets” and participated in “InnoventureLab pre-accelerated startup” to drive Languages: English (Fluent); Italian (Native); Spanish (Basic)
Personal Skills: Gianluca is a very collaborative individual that works well in groups and can manage cross functional teams. He also works well alone and is higly motivated and focused
Professional Experience
Lead Data Scientist, GlacierGrid, San Francisco, CA December 2022 - Present
• Developed and deployed a machine learning model to optimize energy consumption and enhance customer comfort, leading
the full-stack implementation. Managed backend and frontend teams, providing direction on system architecture and
integration, resulting in a 10% increase in energy savings.
• Spearheaded research, design, and implementation of two Machine Learning Simulators by incorporating regression-based
analytics to accurately estimate energy savings for customers, resulting in $60,000 saved in expenses across over 400 client
locations.
• Engineered and delivered a Real-Time Control Loop system that optimized the Energy Forecast Algorithm by researching,
designing, and deploying critical monitoring features, significantly enhancing GlacierGrid core product's forecasting accuracy by ~10x.
Business Analyst, GlacierGrid, San Francisco, CA October 2021 - December 2022
• Engineered and executed an automated reporting system integrating AWS S3 and Tableau, achieving a 3x improvement in
speed and accuracy of data reporting processes.
• Performed an extensive product analytics audit utilizing Python, Tableau, and SQL, reducing user alerts by 15% and
facilitated key product enhancements that led to a 22% increase in meaningful alert engagement.
• Drove delivery of interactive financial and environmental impact models, providing vital data insights on scalable
environmental impact and financial viability across customer segments, that played a key role in securing $20M Series A funding round.
Career Development Researcher, Hult Int. Business School, San Francisco, CA March 2021 - August 2021
• Spearheaded the design and execution of a comprehensive new career platform encompassing over 20 specialized tests,
leveraging usability testing theories such as task scenario tests, wireframe evaluations, and user interviews, which
collectively increased user engagement by 10% within 2 months.
• Conducted rigorous research and analysis on user interaction data for web platforms, applying insights to drive the
implementation of user-centric features that significantly enhanced average session duration by ~15%.
• Led an academic study on the market capitalization of multisided platforms, by employing advanced research and data
analysis to provide actionable insights for industry stakeholders.
Project Consultant, Golee, Milan, Italy February 2020 - May 2020
• Developed and rigorously tested new business model for Golee's new digital product designed to stream lower league
soccer games nationwide, expanding the company’s total serviceable market by 250% and opened new avenues for
customer growth.
• Utilized R to conduct in-depth data analysis, effectively pinpointing target customers and evaluating their interest in a new
product line, guiding strategic marketing decisions and maximizing market penetration.
Education Master of Science in International Business (specialization in Finance)
M.S. May 2022
GPA: 3.87 | Distinctions
M.S. October 2021
GPA: 3.93 | Distinctions
B.S. October 2020
Master of Science in Business Analytics
Hult International Business School, San Francisco, CA Hult International Business School, San Francisco, CA
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Management
Bocconi University, Milan, Italy
